Completing the Self-Assessment Questionnaire 
Merchant Eligibility Criteria for Self-Assessment Questionnaire A 
Self-Assessment Questionnaire (SAQ) A includes only those PCI DSS requirements applicable to 
merchants with account data functions completely outsourced to PCI DSS validated and compliant third 
parties, where the merchant retains only paper reports or receipts with account data. 
SAQ A merchants may be either e-commerce or mail/telephone-order merchants (card-not-present) and 
do not store, process, or transmit any account data in electronic format on their systems or premises.  
This SAQ is not applicable to face-to-face channels.  
This SAQ is not applicable to service providers. 
SAQ A merchants confirm that, for this payment channel: 
 The merchant accepts only card-not-present (e-commerce or mail/telephone-order) transactions; 
 All processing of account data is entirely outsourced to PCI DSS compliant third-party service 
provider (TPSP)/payment processor; 
 The merchant does not electronically store, process, or transmit any account data on merchant 
systems or premises, but relies entirely on a TPSP(s) to handle all these functions; 
 The merchant has reviewed the PCI DSS Attestation of Compliance form(s) for its TPSP(s) and 
confirmed that TPSP(s) are PCI DSS compliant for the services being used by the merchant; and 
 Any account data the merchant might retain is on paper (for example, printed reports or receipts), 
and these documents are not received electronically. 
Additionally, for e-commerce channels:  
 All elements of the payment page(s)/form(s) delivered to the customer’s browser originate only and 
directly from a PCI DSS compliant TPSP/payment processor.  
This SAQ includes only those requirements that apply to a specific type of merchant environment, as 
defined in the above eligibility criteria. If there are PCI DSS requirements applicable to the cardholder data 
environment that are not covered in this SAQ, it may be an indication that this SAQ is not suitable for the 
merchant’s environment.  
Note: For this SAQ, PCI DSS Requirements that address the protection of computer systems (for 
example, Requirements 2, 6, and 8) apply to e-commerce merchants that redirect customers from their 
website to a third party for payment processing, and specifically to the merchant web server upon which 
the redirection mechanism is located. Mail order/telephone order (MOTO) or e-commerce merchants that 
have completely outsourced all operations (where there is no redirection mechanism from the merchant to 
the third party) and therefore do not have any systems in scope for this SAQ, would consider these 
requirements to be “not applicable.” Refer to guidance on the following pages for how to report 
requirements that are not applicable.  
For SAQ A and e-commerce channels, PCI DSS requirements that refer to the “cardholder data 
environment” are applicable to the merchant website(s) that provides the address (the URL) of the TPSP’s 
payment page/form to merchant customers. This is because the merchant website impacts how the 
account data is transmitted, even though the website itself does not receive account data. 